OSG Council Monthly Teleconference
----------------------------------

### Logistics

-   [Meeting logistics](https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/WebHome#Logistics)

### Call to order:

-   Attending:
-   Regrets-notification given:
-   Regrets:

This will be the first in the new structure of quarterly meetings. We will have 3 1 hour sessions with 10 minute breaks between each one.

The doodle poll for the meeting date and time is here.

### **Reading/Acceptance of Minutes of Last Meeting**

[March face-to-dace](https://www.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Council/March-14-2013)

### Resulting (new/updated) Action Items:

### Officers Reports:

-   Council Chair - Ruth Pordes
    -   Status of [Action Items](CouncilActionItems) - Ruth Pordes
    -   2014 AHM - Amber Boehlnlein

-   Executive Director - Report - Lothar Bauerdick
-   Technical Director - Report - Miron Livny

### Special orders --- Important business previously designated for consideration at this meeting.

-   OSG as an XSEDE SP - Report - Chander Sehgal
-   OSG CA Status - Report - Von Welch

-   Other VOs and Issues gathered:

### Committee reports.

### Unfinished business.

-   Follow up on the sub-committee reports and discussions from March - Ruth, et al

### New business.

-   Strategies for Campus Engagement
    -   Campus Infrastructure Communities - Rob Gardner
    -   Discussion of how the Council members can practically contribute to the strategic thrust to engage the campuses

-   Strategies for Data
    -   Situation today - Technology Report - Brian Bockelman
    -   Discussion of how the Council members can practically contribute to remedy the issues with data

-   Strategies for Satellites
    -   Situation today - Satellites in flight - Ruth
    -   Discussion of how the Council members can practically contribute to extend the OSG eco-system through satellites

### Announcements.

-   Date of next meeting: Month, Day, Year (Please send any agenda items you may have to <kmyles@fnal.gov>)

### Adjournment.

-- KimberlyMyles - 2 Jan 2013
