---++!! OSG Council Monthly Teleconference

   * Teleconference Phone Number: 1-866.740.1260 (ReadyTalk)
   * Access Code: 3929264
   * Date: Tuesday April 12th, 2011
   * Time: 10:00 AM Pacific Time, 11AM Mountain, Noon Central, 1PM Eastern 
   * Attending: Kent Blackburn, Horst Severini, Brad Abbott, Rick Snider, Bob Clare, Michael Ernst, Piotr Sliz, Mine Altunay, Tanya Levshina, Paul Avery, Lothar Bauerdick, Ruth Pordes;  Jen Nahn (taking minutes)
   * Regrets: David Swanson, John McGee

---++ *Agenda/Minutes*

---+++ Announcements

   * OSG is acknowledged on the cover of PNAS. Shaowen Wang provided the following [[http://www.pnas.org/content/108/14.cover-expansion][link]]

---+++ Status Report from the OSG Executive Director, OSG Project Manager and/or Others

   * *Executive Director Report (Ruth)*
      * Ruth will give her [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/EdReport-Apr12-2011][ talk]] in the last ten minutes of the meeting this month! 
   * *DOE Grids CA Changes (Mine)*
   * *[[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/twiki/pub/Council/April-12-2011/ThreeThingsAboutStorage.pdf][OSG Storage Solutions, moving forward]] (Tanya)*

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Update on DOE Grids CA changes and direction - Mine Altunay

Background - lots of work on CAs.  CA work itself going through upgrades.  Important as it's not just an upgrade but more drastic changes.   Upgrading registration authority service which is provided by DOE.

Have met with ESnet folks, asked them to put up test instances to see differences between existing and new versions.  There were some delays due to outages, but now they want to resume meetings and work.  Time line is to finish by June 1, with caveat that any problem w/ new software and OSG, work would continue.

Questions -- Kent looked at demo version and gave feedback about LIGO VO.  LIGO VO is dominated by use of scripts to interface. Will that capability be maintained?  Mine: Yes, it's a top thing and applies in other VOs.  Really make a test once the CA is up.  Kent volunteers to help with testing.  

Storage, solutions, moving forward - Tanya Levshina 

1) We support a wide varieety of storage systems.
48 OSG sites provide storage elements, 54 SRMs, variety of DFS as backend
Tier-2, Tier-3, VO
2) We are working hard to make storage easier to use.
RSV storage probes, Gratia storage and transfer probes, Discovery tools.  Pigeon tools, software tuning, search for tools
3) Storage solutions are evolving.
 - Xrootd rpm packaging, deprecating support

Question - Kent - about whether solutions are in place and latest/greatest are working?  Tanya:  Yes, we get the information.  Will it be part of OSG monitoring on website?  We tried, but can't find a host, could look again.
%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Status Report from OSG Council Co-Chairs

   * *Planning for Face-to-Face Council Meetings* (Kent & Paul)
      * May Face to Face: May 19th & 20th - [[http://doodle.com/qgpgzd6vmphrvbtx][Doodle Poll Results]]
      * August Face to Face: August 2nd & 3rd - [[http://doodle.com/nz4tnbdcxa3445gn][Doodle Poll Results]]
   * *Search for Council co-chair* (Kent & Paul)

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Doodle poll results indicate May 19-20 are best for face-to-face meeting.
Request that council approve those dates -- check if FNAL OK or we do it elsewhere in Chicago
**Action Item Kent:  Check with Jemise that FNAL definitely works

Standing August face to face -- Aug 2-3 is favored in the poll. 

Kent will be stepping down when funding ends from Caltech, please think about this and should have call for nominations soon, election at face to face in August.
There is not a concrete date but NSF award ends at the end of August.  That defines the beginning of possible end date time frame; therefore encourage election in August.  Paul suggests he could stay on for an interim period of a few months if necessary.

**Action Item Paul/Kent:  Talk together with Chander about exact dates, funding, chair election
%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Status Report from the OSG Executive Director

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Three action items from March Face to Face

1)  ATLAS resource sharing - Michael replied - [Link to slide] - ATLAS happy to work with VOs one at a time.  Will do it for this case and see how it goes.

2)  audit usage policy, will try to do before next Face to Face

3)  technical director and tech group for iRODS - will do in May

No response from NSF about proposal submitted to NSF.

SciDAC - Lothar assoc dir - nothing to comment at this point, there are a few weeks to finish it.  Kent:  Question - Difference between SciDAC 3 and NSF? -- SciDAC about research with DOE-specific benefits, OSG as important facility to the LHC.  Project of 10FTEs, 4 of which overlap with what's in the existing NSF proposal.  Four FTEs'  program of work is mapped over to SciDAC 3 proposal:  new technologies via VDT, security extensions in software infrastructure, and technology investigation area - docked to main proposal with interlocked proposals from the institute.  Meeting at FNAL 21 April, 10 days before whole thing is due.

Ruth - There was a meeting today on US shared cyberinfrastructure.   Posted at EGI site. 
%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Round-Table Virtual Organization Reports and Issues:

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Rick:  (CDF) -- no, don't have any issues

Bob (USCMS) defers to Lothar, who mentions after successful run last year, we're taking data again, going strong and will use OSG for a long while.

Kent (LIGO) --  LIGO finished big science run in October. Still lots of analysis to do, two years of data.  Moving ahead with building advanced LIGO,  complete 2014, some engineering data taking and prelim science data taking 2014-15, full science a couple years after.  Meanwhile updating data grid and other.  LIGO has been very successful in improving throughput.  There's a plan presented to NSF for open data era where some highly cleaned up data will be available to general public (high schools, colleges, anyone).  Probably will need to use computing resources beyond LIGO data grid for this, maybe cloud, who knows.  Not discount OSG or TeraGrid for this.

Piotr (SBGrid) - Process of developing new workflow.  Summer students coming. 

Horst (DOSAR) - slow going, working on it.

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ AOB

%BLUE% *minutes:*
Paul - Miami - premature to talk much, but they are in close relationship with a number of disciplines that are of interest and are well organized. Hope to say more at next council meeting.
%ENDCOLOR%

-- Main.JenniferNahn - 14 Apr 2011
-- Main.KentBlackburn - 05 Apr 2011
