---++!! OSG Council Monthly Teleconference

   * Teleconference Phone Number: 1-866.740.1260 (ReadyTalk)
   * Access Code: 3929264
   * Date: Tuesday April 10, 2012
   * Time: 10:00 AM Pacific Time, 11AM Mountain, Noon Central, 1PM Eastern 
  
   * Acceptance of last months minutes from the Face-to-Face meetings in Lincoln, NE: March 22 [[March-22-2012][Minutes]], March 23 [[March-23-2012][Minutes]] 


   * Attending:Lothar Bauerdick, Ruth Pordes, Paul Avery, Rick Snider, Michael Ernst, Brad Abbott, Horst Severini, Bill Barnett, Rob Quick, Tom Hacker, Piotr Sliz, Jerome Lauret, Richard Mount, Ken Bloom, Bob Clare, David Swanson, Von Welch, Chander Sehgal, Dan Fraser, Kimberly Myles (minutes)
   * Regrets:  Steve Tuecke, Victoria White

---++ *Agenda/Minutes*

---+++ From the Council Chairs
   * Announcements
   * Status of [[https://www.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Council/CouncilActionItems][OSG Council Action Items]] (Paul/Rick)


---++++GLOBUS funding request 

   *  Follow up with Ruth and Steve Tuecke next week (3/26-30th) re: background issues, determine next steps to develop funding letter. (Paul)

---++++Action: Follow up with Ruth and others to determine next steps. (Paul)


---++++iSGTW

   *  Add Horst back on to iSGTW newsletter list. (Paul)
 
---++++Engage effort 

   *  Follow up with the Executive Team by April 1st. (Lothar)
   *  Continue discussion re: Engage funding- high priority to develop campus strategy. (Executive Team)
   *  Keep Engage as an OSG Council Teleconference standing agenda item. (Paul/Rick)
   *  Discuss nest steps for International Outreach Program (Council)

---++++Council chair election

   *  Modify bylaws to clarify interpretation of active member standing. (Paul/Rick)
   *  Update bylaws to reflect allowing non-members of council to be considered for election as Council Chair. (Paul/Rick)
   *  Obtain email statement from Ruth (done) and conduct vote 1 week after statement is circulated to the Council. (Paul/Rick)

%BLUE% *minutes* Council Chair election held via email. The majority of the council voted, and vote was unanimous in favor of electing Ruth Council Chair. 

%ENDCOLOR%


---++++Nebraska AHM post-mortem

   *  Try to get a commitment for the next Face-to-Face location by April Council meeting. (Rob Q)
      * [[IndianaUAHM][Indiana University AHM Proposal]]
   *  Modify AHM instructions to clarify different needs for organizing logistics and program.

%BLUE% *minutes*
   *  Bill Barnet, Rob Q presented proposal for IU to host March 11 during IU Spring Break. 
   *  Location close to airport/ downtown Indianapolis.
   *  Lecture rooms, meeting facilities in IT bldg. - where GOC is hosted, Global research operations 24/7 center. Close connections w/ Internet2, Campus Bridge for XSEDE, Fiber Security---useful groups could participate.
   *  Local committee comprised currently of Bill as PI, Bret L, Judy Miller (co-ord. for research technologies). 
   *  Would OSG make up the difference in funding if there is a negative financial impact to IU in hosting? (Craig Stewart)
   *  No official OSG policy on underwriting overage costs for an OSG AHM. (Paul)
   *  Based on NE model: <Formula=100 x 3 x 85=25K> 25K in income minus 22K in outgoing expenses-little chance of an overage occurring according. NE AHM was in the black according to David S. and Ken B.

%ENDCOLOR%

---++++Action:  Response to IU AHM proposal by next Council meeting. (Ruth)
---++++Action:  Propose OSG Council position statement on the handling of overage costs for AHM’s. (Paul)

---++++Collaboratories workshop report and next steps

   *  Understand what OSG does not have funded and what needs to be funded right now and how to fit in this proposal. (All)
      * [[%ATTACHURL%/OSG-CSresearchNeeds.pdf][OSG Council research needs]] (Draft ET document for review)

---++++Action:  For May Council Teleconference, add “Collaboratories..” to the agenda. (Ruth/Paul/Rick)


---++++OSG Certificate Authority

   *  Make a risk assessment regarding CA's disappearing (Michael, Lothar, Executive Team)
   *  Review of risk assessment. (Executive Team).
   *  Create a plan on what to do if we need to switch a cerficate authority. (Security Team)
   *  Attach Von's assessment to meeting minutes. (Chandar)
   *  Approach stakeholders (i.e. US Atlas) to discuss transition process. (Mine)
   *  Add OSG Certificate Authority as a standing OSG Teleconference agenda item. (Paul/Rick)

---++++Update on Satellites

   *  Obtain guidance from the Council on what we should we do differently for Satellites.

---++++ASCR financial assistance funding opportunity

   *  Richard Mount will share what he knows about various project proposals and create a small document identifying areas of research.




---+++ Status Report from the OSG Executive Director, OSG Project Manager and/or Others 
   *  Executive Director report (Lothar)

%BLUE% *minutes*

Executive Director transition period
   *  2 months.
Engage effort
   *  Starting to discuss what needs to be done— specifically how users get access/ how to deal w/ Engage Services. 
Certificate Authority Risk Assessment
   *  Plan to handle as other risk assessments handled- i.e. in security area- interface w/ project, etc.

%ENDCOLOR%

---++++Action:  What to do if this service vanishes- write up this plan and route for comment/review. (Lothar) 

%BLUE% *minutes*

XSEDE on working together on future identity mgmt. issues:
   *  Long-term collaboration w/ XSEDE- meeting scheduled w/ John Townes this week. Scope of meeting will include what will the OSG/XSEDE collaboration look like long term and what can we do together to address future needs?
   *  Meeting scheduled in two weeks re: TeraGrid. 
Research agenda document
   *  Input from ET, area coordinators, document posted and routed to Council yesterday. More input encouraged. Work has started for outline of proposal.
   *  Received feedback from Bill Johnston: make sure we outline what we want to get. For Short term, 2 weeks more to go etc. He has also heard about other proposals submitted. 
Plan for transition of RENCI-ENGAGE supported apparatus
   *  Started to put together a plan, not at execution phase.
Plan will address each of the following categories:
1. In flocking arrangements 
2. Incubators 
3. Individual researchers
XRootD Proto proposal
   *  Richard offered to answer any questions. He discussed briefly during NE face-to-face.
   *  Richard hoping to revise current proposal (in skeleton form) today. 
   *  Richard will discuss how HEP side of funding might go etc. w/ Lali tomorrow afternoon and keep Lothar in the loop.  
   *  Richard happy to field specific questions regarding this proposal offline. 

%ENDCOLOR%


---+++ OSG as an XSEDE service provider (Chander)

   * OSG-XSEDE interface ready for production
      * Good support from XSEDE staff, especially Victor Hazelwood, in integrating this interface. 
      * Jobs will run in OSG as vo=osg using glideinWMS; more details at https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Trash/Trash/Trash/Trash/VirtualOrganizations/OSGasXsedeSp
      * Load volume testing (week of March 19) completed at ~1500 cores; the offered capacity is 1000 cores as of April 1, 2012.  The background volume in OSG during that week was approx. 1.8M hours per day
   * From March 2012 XRAC, 3 PIs awarded allocations on OSG (none of them had originally requested OSG  -- reviewers determined match with OSG); but one allocation appears to be in error since application relies on MPI
   * Emails sent to allocation recipients offering support in using OSG via this interface; user guide available at https://www.xsede.org/user-guides
   * OSG is now available for start-up allocations (max of 200K hours) via the XSEDE portal in addition to Research Allocations; see https://www.xsede.org/allocations
   * Supporting ECSS in learning OSG who will in-turn help XSEDE users in adapting their apps to run on OSG.  Also plan a module on OSG in the HTC tutorial on the first day of XSEDE 12 conference; see https://www.xsede.org/web/xsede12


%BLUE% *minutes*
Startup allocation- researcher who wants to try out an environment for their application will get a quick turnaround on getting reviewed and granted.  

Campus champion question: 
   * Can we get someone w/in OSG to help w/ allocations as OSG Champion person? Looking for OSG resources to run specific jobs. (Piotr)
   * Response: model doesn’t fit in with what XSEDE resource allocation committee has mandated. No answer yet. (Chander)


%ENDCOLOR%

 
---+++ OSG Certificate Authority (Von)

%BLUE% *minutes*

   * Plan in place for funding development/deployment of CA. 
   * DigiCert contract passed to IU legal- getting contract signed.
   * Production phases, planning ongoing until end of Month in May. Maintenance mode in December.
   * Regular weekly call working out technical plan for CA and transition of other plans occurring.
   * Hot topic- how to handle the change in user names that result in change in CA- in as smooth a manner as possible.
   * For further detail, Chander added a link to the NE AHM minutes

%ENDCOLOR%


---+++ Status Report from OSG Council Co-Chairs

---+++ Engage Effort (Paul/Rick)



%BLUE% *minutes*
Engage coming to an end-operating on no cost extension. 1 proposal submitted was not accepted.

%ENDCOLOR%


---++++Action:  Keep as standing Council agenda item

---++++Action:  Council to investigate what can be done to resurrect funding for this effort.

---+++ ExTENCI report and status (Paul)

%BLUE% *minutes*
   * Funding coming to an end mid-2012. Trying to put together a new proposal. Information gathered from various teams, 8 universities involved + 4 efforts. Idea to work closely w/ XSEDE and OSG and leadership for both projects. 
   * Next step is conversation with Ruth, Lothar and John Townes to see if there are major changes of direction for a proposed ExTENCI II project. Phone call scheduled for this week with Ruth and John T. 


---+++ Round-Table Virtual Organization Reports and Issues
 
%BLUE% *minutes*

August Council face-to-face meeting:  
   * Has not been scheduled nor a location determined. Ruth will talk to people individually over the next few months regarding these plans.

MPI Computations: 
   * Allocation on TeraGrid. Dan F. reported on the status of MPI- a CMS test they performed was conducted and reported on at the AHM. Purdue resources were used. They have a VMS queue set up. 
   * Biggest road block is Condor technology, making sure it can effectively support multi-threaded HTPC-type apps. 
   * Piotr is looking for 1-3 months computation that requires an Infiniband backbone. Dan stated his resource is on node with no backbone (2 x 4 way or 1 x8 way processor). 

%ENDCOLOR%

---++++Action:  Dan will look into seeing what he can find in terms of resources to fulfill Piotor’s request. If there is availability he will let Piotr know and he can test. 

%ENDCOLOR%

 
---+++ ACTION ITEMS

1. Follow up with Steve Tuecke to determine next steps regarding GLOBUS funding request. (Ruth)

2. Follow up with Executive Team by April 1st regarding Engage effort. (Lothar)

3. Discuss next steps for International Outreach. (Ruth)

4. Response to IU AHM proposal by May Council meeting. (Ruth)




-- Main.KimberlyMyles - 4 April 2012
