---++!! OSG Council Monthly Teleconference

   * Teleconference Phone Number: 1-866.740.1260 (ReadyTalk)
   * Access Code: 3929264
   * Date: Tuesday February 14th, 2012
   * Time: 10:00 AM Pacific Time, 11AM Mountain, Noon Central, 1PM Eastern 
  
   * Acceptance of last months minutes from [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/January-10-2012][January 10 Teleconference]]



   * Attending: Brad Abbott, Paul Avery, Lothar Bauerdick, Michael Ernst, Tom Hacker, John McGee, Jerome Lauret, Richard Mount, Ruth Pordes, Rob Quick, Horst Severini, Piotr Sliz, Rick Snider, David Swanson, Steve Tuecke, Vicky White


   * Regrets:  Bill Barnett, Bob Clare

---++ *Agenda/Minutes*


---+++ From the OSG Council Co-Chairs

   * Announcements
      * Next month's Council meeting will be replaced by face-to-face in Nebraska.


   * Status of [[https://www.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Council/CouncilActionItems][OSG Council Action Items]] (Paul/Rick)

%BLUE% *minutes* Please review the[[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/New][Membership Listing]]  next week (Feb. 20-24) and let Paul or Rick know if you have any updates.

%ENDCOLOR%

   * Report from the OSG  Executive Director Selection Sub-committee (co-chairs)

    * The sub-committee recommends the Council vote to approve the following (Council) 

Proposed variance to OSG Executive Director election procedure applicable to the 2012 Executive Director election
   
---------------------------------------------------------------


_After the close of a two-week open nomination period to the position of Executive Director, the Executive Director Selection Sub-committee will advance to the OSG Council the list of qualified candidates among those nominated who are willing to stand for election.  The voting period for the election will begin one week after the February Council meeting, the first regular Council meeting following the candidate announcement, and will follow the "non-meeting election process" specified in the OSG Consortium Voting Procedures document (OSG-DocDB-311). Prior to the election, the Executive Director candidate(s) will make a presentation to the Council during the regular meeting of the Council in February._

_The term of the new Executive Director will begin on April 1, 2012. The first two months of the term will be a formal transition period during which the out-going Executive Director will be available, as needed, to assist with carrying out the duties of Executive Director._


---------------------------------------------------------------


%BLUE% *minutes* Because of way selection process went, council approval is sought. Some changes with respect to the procedure are outlined in the management plan are sought, some are retroactive- an email was sent regarding these changes and was posted to the agenda for this meeting. 

Request is for a formal vote or to provide other wording. The duration for the process would be condensed from 8 months to 2 1/2 months. The change is justified for this case because the Candidate has been in working in the organization as Associate Executive Director for many months now. Also, the procedure in the management plan assumed more than one candidate. Reason for one candidate: no other applications submitted, current candidate is very qualified. Not changing rule forever, proposed variance applicable only to this election. If Council wants to change this process globally,  then should amend management plan- not proposing this. Council has option to not elect the one standing candidate. Variance to succession process is a different issue.


%ENDCOLOR%


   * Presentation to the Council by the candidate standing for Executive Director (Lothar Bauerdick)

    * [[%ATTACHURL%/2012-02-OSG-ExecutiveDirector.pdf][2012-02-OSG-ExecutiveDirector.pdf]]: 2012-02-OSG-ExecutiveDirector.pdf

   

%BLUE% *minutes* An overview of Lothar’s background, qualifications and nomination by the Executive Team was followed by open questions.
%ENDCOLOR%

*Vote*

Regarding the Proposed variance to OSG Executive Director election procedure applicable to the 2012 Executive Director Election:

%BLUE% *minutes* A unanimous vote was registered in favor of this motion by all Council members in attendance. (Rob Gardner and John McGee are not members of the council and registered an abstention from voting) 
A unanimous vote was also registered for a motion to select co-chairs as election administrators.

---++++Action: Rick will send an official announcement (email) describing the election process. The election procedure is documented in the OSG by-laws (OSG docdb document 311). The election voting period will begin next week.


%ENDCOLOR%


   * Discussion of Council Chair election (co-chairs)

   * Election to take place at March meeting, term to begin either April 1, 2012, or June 1, 2012, depending upon outcome of previous vote.
   * Ruth Pordes is currently standing for election.

%BLUE% *minutes* Election will take place at March face-to-face meeting.  Term will begin April 1st - Council to vote on this. Nothing in the rules states when people must step forward to stand for election. 

---++++Action: Add concerns raised about OSG management structure, effectiveness of entities within this structure- put as agenda item for next meeting to discuss nature of those concerns in more detail, decide how council will move forward to address these. Could involve changes to bylaws.


%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Update on continued funding for GLOBUS and CDIGS (Steve Tuecke)
   
%BLUE% *minutes*  Primary funding for Globus  ended a year ago. 1 year bridge funding – sources of ongoing funding small supplement to OSG/ Teragrid- funded for last 6 months.

   * This money carries GLOBUS until late Spring, early summer. Another proposal to NSF- OSG sent letter of commitment- notified not funded.
   * After early summer, the majority of funding that allows GLOBUS (At Argonne/ U of Chicago) to continue ends (a little bit of DOE money is available).
   * Steve solicited suggestions from the Council re: appropriate avenues to try and “secure enough funding to support NSF community in general and OSG in specific”.
   * Should funding from Globus Toolkit be coming from the projects that are using it? Relevant projects should be talking to/ obtaining smaller support from several projects?
   * Benefits of sustaining centrally were outlined.
   * Get some pressure exerted on OCI and DOE program offices for sustained support?
   * OSG council should write a letter to NSF/ DOE? (Affects broader community, no fair way to distribute the cost. Same issue coming up with CONDOR? Miron going through this cycle too?)
   * Convince OCI to find money (tried- no success), one or more of the science offices?  Or it goes unsupported?
   * Ruth requested action by the Council on this in parallel to the actions the Executive Team is discussing.


---++++Action: Paul and Rick to prepare something and send around for discussion, Steve offered to help. (GLOBUS funding request)


%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Status Report from the OSG Executive Director, OSG Project Manager and/or Others
   * Move of www.opensciencegrid.org to twiki (prototype front page is at https://twiki-itb.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Main/WebHome ). All content from web portal already moved. Consolidate source of information. Evaluating new technologies for Twiki over next 12 months. 

   * Status of OSG planning (Ruth)
      * We have heard from NSF about their plans but no conclusion yet. Based on these plans we have submitted the Cooperative Agreement and Project Execution Plan for review. We are also contacting the different organizations with current OSG staff to discuss the plans for post March 31st 2012, which is the end date of the current statements of work.  We have started discussing in the Executive Team short term contingency plans if the NSF funds are not in place before the end of the current SOWs. We will decide and work to put these plans in place in the 2nd week of March if we don't hear anything definite from NSF by then. It is expected that the DOE funds will be in the BNL and Fermilab FIN plans in March.
      * Work is proceeding to support the first users of OSG through the XSEDE allocation process and OSG-XSEDE submit host. Chander can report on this activity. 
      * The Executive Team has let the iSGTW board know that OSG /US editorial contributions to iSGTW will be frozen as of 1st April. 

%BLUE% *minutes* Rick suggested that the Council submit feedback via email regarding these bullet items.

%ENDCOLOR%


   * Assessement (Rob Gardner)   
      * [[%ATTACHURL%/assess-council-2012.02.14.pptx.pdf][assess-council-2012.02.14.pptx.pdf]]: assess-council-2012.02.14.pptx.pdf
      * Trash/Trash/Trash/Assessment.WebHome

%BLUE% *minutes* Rob discussed forming an assessment activity within OSG. An example from NEES grid was given.  Program driven by stakeholder requirements- new approach is to combine elements for planning including WBS, specifications and stakeholder requests.  Ruth created a doc with strategic accomplishments- those that can be used. Goal is to measure progress, metrics applied to goals in OSG. “Creating a balanced scorecard puts in one place linkage from various management objects in OSG guiding our execution and relates them together.” Relating metrics to strategic objectives- whatever comes out of planning is built into metrics framework- has to fit naturally into area coordinators workflow.

Face-to-face meeting scheduled with ET at Fermilab Feb. 23.


%ENDCOLOR%


   * XSEDE and OSG (Rob Gardner)
      * The OSG VO support group has an activity aimed at enabling a researcher who gets an XSEDE allocation to be able to use OSG resources
      * Should OSG develop tools to provide transparent access to OSG and XSEDE resources?
         * (i.e. for those already OSG-engaged users who have XSEDE allocations)
         * Eg. based on glideins 
      * The activity above (getting an XSEDE user access to OSG resources, OSG being an XSEDE Resource Provider, the XSEDE user otherwise having no direct involvement through an existing VO)  needs to be understood in terms of which VO vehicle to use for both resource sharing negotiation and support.

%BLUE% *minutes* Providing resources behind an OSG gateway in/ for XSEDE users?  At campus level, users on a campus that may not know much about OSG may not realize OSG manages multiple resources. Start activity that’s a transparent layer between them, i.e. opportunistic VOs.

Many cases not aware of complexity behind OSG (Collective VO- no support required between end-user and site administrator) Phased transition over the past year or longer.

Attention by council- OSG’s relationship to XSEDE as a resource provider, we’re conduits for XSEDE users, how are they getting supported, special campaigns? Two directions to look at this environment, have an understood approach to this- effectively communicate back to own community/ at our campuses.


%ENDCOLOR%


---+++ Round-Table Virtual Organization Reports and Issues
 
%BLUE% *minutes* Nothing at this time.

%ENDCOLOR%


---+++ AOB
   * Nebraska face-to-face Council meeting.

%BLUE% *minutes* Scheduled for Thurs. afternoon, March 22 and Friday morning, March 23. Start and finish times and agenda: TBD.  Straw man agenda will be developed over the next two – three weeks.

%ENDCOLOR%


---+++ ACTION ITEMS
1 Rick will send an [[official announcement]] (email) describing the election process. (done)

2 Add concerns raised about OSG management structure, effectiveness of entities within this structure- put as agenda item for next meeting to discuss nature of those concerns in more detail, decide how council will move forward to address these. Could involve changes to bylaws.

3 Paul and Rick to prepare something and send around for discussion, Steve offered to help. (re: GLOBUS funding request)





-- Main.KimberlyMyles - 8 Feb 2012

