---++!! OSG Council Monthly Teleconference

   * Teleconference Phone Number: 1-866.740.1260 (ReadyTalk)
   * Access Code: 3929264
   * Date: Tuesday February 8th, 2011
   * Time: 10:00 AM Pacific Time, 11AM Mountain, Noon Central, 1PM Eastern 
   * Attending: Paul A., Kent B., Chander S., Dan F., Miriam B., Shaowen W., Rick S., Brad A., Horst S., Steve T., Piotr S., Bob C., Jen Nahn
   * Regrets: n/a

---++ *Agenda/Minutes*

---+++ Announcements

---+++ Status Report from the OSG Executive Director, OSG Project Manager and/or Others

   * *All Hands Meeting Planning Status* (Piotr)
      * [[https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=dC1kc0U4MmRrSkJUbnVXcl9YLTRELXc6MQ][Questions for Panelist]]
   * *iSGTW name change change* (Miriam)
   * *DOE Extension Award* (Chander)

%BLUE% *minutes:* 

*AHM*: Program committee continuing to met on Fridays if anyone is interested in attending. Council Face-to-Face meeting will be held in Best Western Hotel. Trying to include dinner in the cost for the meeting for Council members. There is an issue with accepting a check from Dell sponsorship. Piotr asked Chander to look into whether or not Fermilab can accept the check. Globus will be at the meeting and is interested in reaching out to VOs. Chander will think about whether this would fit into the VO user support session and get back to Steve. All panelist have agreed to participate. There will be 5 fenders at the meeting. The registration for the Best Western has been extended to Feb 15th.

*iSGTW*: Had to take down "The Digital Scientist" sites/name because of a trademark challenge. Fermilab lawyers made this recommendation and it was observed. Will be looking to lawyers for appropriate process to assure do diligence in new name selection. Will probably require a trademark search by an external law firm at the cost of several thousand dollars. There is no way to assure no challenges in a name selection.

*DOE Extension*: Alan Stone emailed Chander on Jan 26th to say that the extension had been approved. There is an issue with the budget that is requiring a rework to assure that at the end of March 2012 there will be no carry over. Still not clear if any money from Nuclear Physics earmarked for LBNL will be approved. SciDAC 3 expected to be formulated and ready for proposal submission by summer of this year. 

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Status Report from OSG Council Co-Chairs

   * *OSG Prime Proposal Review at NSF Last Week* (Paul)
   * *OSG Council Face-to-Face Meeting Agenda Building* (Kent, Paul, Council)
      * March 10th and 11th: Thursday 2-6PM, Friday 9am-1PM
      * All Hands Meeting [[http://ahm.sbgrid.org][URL]]
      * Doodle Poll [[http://doodle.com/sb8ywdf2pzips57f][Results]] for attending


%BLUE% *minutes:* 

*OSG Prime Review*: Meeting at NSF Jan 26th - Jan 27th included 4 outside, reviewers (Ian Bird, John Towns, Richard Moore, Bill Johnston). Review went very well with lots of useful comments and feedback. Recommended to socialize this proposal with the agencies to get their feedback which has begun. The NSF would like to have the proposal submitted into Fastlane by March 4th. There was no agency participation at the review, but attendees did meet with the agencies program officers after the review to begin socialization process. Agencies would like to see a strong international element to the proposal, as well as campus CI and software sustainability. Some discussion of satellite proposal concept. Response to this was "unremarkable", and thought to be a reasonable framework. Reviewers also commented that it is important that the OSG Prime PI be on the council as the "PI". 

*F2F Agenda*: Proposal will have been submitted by the time of the council face-to-face. A brief update on the submission would be useful. Not expecting any feedback from the agencies at that time, but expect that some interaction to help navigate the proposal internally within the agencies will be requested before summer. Planning for biomedical proposals to the NIH was noted as well. With the terms ending for the current "collective VO" representative, an update from Shaowen on the status of council representation for the future has been asked for. Also an update on Extensi and satellite proposals that may cross over between the OSG and TG/XD would be useful for discussion. Budget pressures at the agencies was noted and the question of whether or not any insight was being given to the agencies regarding funding for satellite proposals that are coupled to OSG was asked. Chander will mention this to the proposal team. NEW: Metrics/Trash/Trash/Trash/Assessment Report from Rob Gardner.

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ AOB

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Went over time a few minutes. No other business presented.

%ENDCOLOR%


-- Main.KentBlackburn - 31 Jan 2011