---++!! OSG Council Monthly Teleconference

   * Teleconference Phone Number: 1-866.740.1260 (ReadyTalk)
   * Access Code: 3929264
   * Date: Tuesday January 10, 2012
   * Time: 10:00 AM Pacific Time, 11AM Mountain, Noon Central, 1PM Eastern 
  
   * Acceptance of last months minutes from [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/December-13-2011][December 13 Teleconference]]

  
   * Attending: Brad Abbott, Paul Avery, Lothar Bauerdick, Tom Hacker, Ruth Pordes, Rob Quick, Horst Severini, Rick Snider, David Swanson, Chander Seghal, Dan Fraser

  
   * Regrets: Bill Barnett, Bob Clare, John McGee 

---++ *Agenda/Minutes*
---+++ Announcements

   *  Charter document: up for approval vote (thanks to those who already voted).  Please vote if you haven’t. [Please see "Addendum to 10 January Minutes" for results]
   *  ED Election: Sub-committee formed. Selection process detailed in Management plan (8 months to complete, 2 for selection- 6 month overlap). A variance from this process is sought, requiring council approval. Sub-committee named to identify list of candidates (open to anyone to stand)/ details for variance: Vicky white, Richard Mount, Piotr Sliz, David Swanson agreed to serve. (Paul/Rick) Position open to anyone to stand. Ideas/input? Let Paul/Rick know or members of sub-com. 
   *  Chair election: Bylaws state perform via a non-meeting vote (email) but past few chairs selected during face-to-face meeting. Might request that we do the election at the March face-to-face in Nebraska. Currently have one candidate (Ruth). Anyone else interested, let Paul/Rick know.


---+++ Check [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/New][Membership Listing]]
   *  Defer to February.

---+++ Check Action Items from Last Month

1. ED election: Form a subcommittee and make recommendation (co-chairs). 

%BLUE% *minutes* Formed, will report soon.
%ENDCOLOR%


2. Council chair: Contact current co-chairs, if interested (Council). 

%BLUE% *minutes* See "Announcements".
%ENDCOLOR%


3. iSGTW funding and name change (carry over)(co-chairs and council) 

%BLUE% *minutes* Offline discussion.
%ENDCOLOR%


4. Investigate future funding (Paul) 

%BLUE% *minutes* See Status Report from OSG ED, “SAVI co-funding opportunities”.
%ENDCOLOR%


5. AHM: Get a report next week; send to council (David Swanson) 

%BLUE% *minutes* 

Registration page: Ashu going through testing/validation. Will open up by EOB today (1/10). Includes room, travel and daily registration. 

Agenda: coming together. Some work on agenda, Indico page left, but majority firmed up. 
Program Managers invited. 

Poster session- going forward with. Questions: Ideas? Highlight new users? Would scientists be willing to come for a one hour poster session?

Miron proposed plenary agenda, sent to Executive Team: something different to mark transition from previous project/phase to next. 
%ENDCOLOR%


6. Sign off on revised charter. (council) 

%BLUE% *minutes* Conclude voting process next Monday (1/16). Replies received already. 
%ENDCOLOR%


7. Look at and provide changes to Accomplishments document by Jan. 10 teleconference (council) 

%BLUE% *minutes* See minutes from the "Status Report from the OSG Executive Director."
%ENDCOLOR%


---+++ Status Report from the OSG Executive Director, OSG Project Manager and/or Others
   * Executive Directors Report - Ruth
      * Status of project proposal

%BLUE% *minutes* Review of OSG project -Thanksgiving, received copies of NSF reviewers, request from DOE to provide an impact on what the services and program of work will be. Provide impact statement to DOE/NSG beginning of this week. Waiting for feedback from DOE from their response. NSF wants us to respond to reviewers comments, Frank/Lothar taking a first shot, goal to have response by Friday this week. Lali and Marv expressed commitment to ensure stability across transition of funds in March. March final plan- reviewers comments extremely positive overall. Just NSF reviewers, DOE does not release comments until after award. Funding agency’s continue to support OSG next 5 years, major review in the next 3 years (likely related to LHC upgrade- mid-2014) OCI- NSF Office of Cyber Infrastructure- investigate open science grid? ASCR investing in some new initiatives. Richard to comment in his presentation.

Following up with Marv on European/US collaborations.
%ENDCOLOR%

   * Status of DOSAR plan to host OSG school in Ghana (Ruth, and Horst)
      * Slides:
[[%ATTACHURL%/Dosar_OSG_Workshop_in_Ghana.pptx][Dosar_OSG_Workshop_in_Ghana.pptx]]: DOSAR OSG Ghana Workshop (PPT)

[[%ATTACHURL%/Dosar_OSG_Workshop_in_Ghana.pdf][Dosar_OSG_Workshop_in_Ghana.pdf]]: DOSAR OSG Ghana Workshop (PDF)

%BLUE% *minutes* Exec.Team endorsed this activity. Proposed OSG grid workshop in Ghana, after African School of Physics, 3 weeks in July. Aug. 6-8 hold grid workshop. (see URL)
Question: Interest in campus grids? (Dan) Answer: Yes. One section on HTPC can be modified slightly to include campus grids- can discuss offline. (Horst)
%ENDCOLOR%

   *  SAVI Co-funding Opportunities - [[%ATTACHURL%/SAVI_Memo_Final.docx][SAVI Memo]] (Ruth)


    %BLUE% *minutes* ED bringing to attention of council members. Council members can talk to any member of Executive Team about any opportunities. 

%ENDCOLOR%

   
   * Update on OSG as an XSEDE Service Provider - Chander Sehgal 
      * [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/twiki/pub/Council/December-13-2011/OSG-XSEDE_XRAC_Intro_v2.pdf][Slides]]

%BLUE% *minutes* 
Slides (read for technical info)

Rick- who in XSEDE will want to use this? Identified 4 candidates during last quarterly allocation meeting that might have used OSG had it been available at that point. Tried to explain at XSEDE meeting the work best suited to OSG. Will need to learn as we move forward. Offering about (1-2) % of OSG resources, or about 10% of opportunistic resources available on a daily basis. OSG allocation is best effort.

Get current tech plan in place, make it execute- basic approach- get input late Spring/ early Summer time-frame, then think about growing offering.
%ENDCOLOR%

   *  Discuss and hopefully finalize by Jan. 2012 the [[%ATTACHURL%/Strategic_Accomplishments_v6.pdf][Strategic_Accomplishments_v6.pdf]]: 


%BLUE% *minutes* 

Comments from Rick, Bill, Piotr, Rob G reflected in new version Ruth posted. 

Unanimious vote, no abstentions or objections: Registered as approved.
%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Brief summary on Dec. 6-7 Collaborations for Extreme-Scale Science Workshop (Ruth) 
   * See https://indico.bnl.gov/conferenceDisplay.py?ovw=True&confId=403


%BLUE% *minutes* Smaller, less data intensive science communities, neutron science and x ray facilities, astro physics and high energy- good interaction (data intensive communities) -dark energy survey and LSST, Computer scientists, Berkeley, Scientific networking group.  Advanced networks, testing. Expectation is outcome of this workshop and report- input to ASCAR in some future solicitation- key messages: “data, data, data” (data over advanced networks specifically). OSG shown way- now “do something different and new”. Earth System Grid- Dean Williams interest in OSG CA and Ticketing service- Dan, Rob Q., Von Welch following up.
%ENDCOLOR%


  
---+++ Status Report from OSG Council Co-Chairs

%BLUE% *minutes* See announcements.
%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Round-Table Virtual Organization Reports and Issues
 
  %BLUE% *minutes* Chander doing work with Electron Ion Collider contacts at Brookhaven (Nuclear Physics Community) transforming application to run on OSG. Got work done and continuing to push forward. Article in development for OSG newsletter. Started them up as an Engage VO, hopefully they will form their own. 
%ENDCOLOR%


---+++ AOB:
   * None.

---++++Action Items:  
   1.  Check [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/New][Membership Listing]] (Co-Chairs)
   2.  Rick will make a proposal to request approval for a time schedule variance from the ED selection process detailed in the Management plan.
   3.  Question: Is council interested in learning more about possible satellite or supporting initiatives? ED to make this report; gather ideas from other council members i.e. areas of work interested in. (Council)


---++++Defer to February 14 Teleconference:  
   *   None.


---++++Meeting documents
   * [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/twiki/pub/Council/December-13-2011/OSG-XSEDE_XRAC_Intro_v2.pdf][OSG-XSEDE_XRAC_Intro_v2.pdf]]: OSG_XSEDE for 10 Jan. Council

   * [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/twiki/pub/Council/December-13-2011/CharterV_05_Dec2011.pdf][CharterV_05_Dec2011.pdf]]: Latest (9Dec2011) Version of OSG Charter

    
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/SAVI_Memo_Final.docx][SAVI_Memo_Final.docx]]: SAVI Memo
-- Main.KimberlyMyles - 03 Jan 2012


---+++ Addendum to 10 January minutes:
   *  The new version of the Charter document has been approved by a vote of 9 "yes" and zero "no".





-- Main.KimberlyMyles - 31 Jan 2012