---++!! OSG Council Monthly Teleconference

   * Teleconference Phone Number: 1-510-665-5437 
   * Meeting ID: 1111 
   * Date: Tuesday July 14th, 2009 
   * Time: 10:00 AM Pacific Time, 11AM Mountain, Noon Central, 1PM Eastern 
   * Attending: *Kent Blackburn, Tom Hacker, Chander Sehgal, Dick Greenwood, Shaowen Wang, Michael Ernst, Richard Mount, Paul Avery, Brad Abbott, Scott McCauley, Ruth Pordes*
   * Regrets: *Piotr Sliz*

---++ *Agenda/Minutes*

---+++ Final Preparations for Face-to-Face  Council Meeting Next Month

   * Crowne Plaza Chicago O'Hare Hotel and Conference Center
   * See email from Chander Sehgal on July  9th for details

%BLUE% *minutes:*

People were advised to follow the instructions for reserving their hotel room which was given in the E-mail from Chander on July 9th:

%ENDCOLOR%

<verbatim>

Dear OSG-Council,
 
As you know, based on prior communication from Kent Blackburn and Paul Avery, the next OSG Council Meeting 
is planned as a face-to-face meeting on Monday, August 10 afternoon and Tuesday, August 11 morning.  The 
venue for this meeting is:
 
Crowne Plaza Chicago O'Hare Hotel & Conference Center
5440 North River Road
Rosemont, IL 60018
Web site:  www.crowneplazaohare.com
 
As part of the arrangements, we have procured a block of hotel rooms at a discounted rate of $99/night for Sunday, 
August 9 and Monday, August 10.  These hotel rooms can be reserved by one of two methods:
 
1) https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_ei_new&eventID=1445286
 
2) Calling Passkey's toll free reservations number at 888-233-9527 and asking for the "Open Science Grid" guestroom block.
 
If you are traveling to this meeting from a non-Chicago area location, we request you to stay at this hotel to help fulfill 
the minimum hotel room commitment that was negotiated.
 
Also, if you have not already filled out the Doodle poll regarding attendance, we would appreciate your input at
 
http://www.doodle.com/es2c5xk2d5rk9gti
 
 
Thanks,
 
Chander Sehgal
OSG Project Manager
630-840-5618

</verbatim>

---+++ Report(s) from the OSG Executive Team

[[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/EDReport-July14-2009][Executive Directors report]]

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Ruth reported on the two workshops (documentation and storage) in the report. These are focused on near term goals for the next year's planning such as the start of LHC data taking. It was also noted that there are several papers submitted (see report) which will be summarized at the Face-to-Face next month with long term view of future. More Tier 3s expected to come on line and will need support, for example it was identified at the storage workshop that for up to 100 cpus clusters, NFS based storage under SRM/Bestman is a workable solution - working to put together documentation on this configuration to give to the Tier 3s. There are currently about 25 to 30 Tier 3s. There is not a concrete growth profile, but it is expected to double. Michael pointed out that the DOE (and to some extent the NSF) have made funding available to support Tier 3s resulting in quite a few proposals. This will definitely have an impact on the growth of the Tier 3s. Ruth noted that this has implications on the scalability of our support and will be an issue/topic for on going discussion. Site Admin meeting in early August will focus on many of these issues.

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Summary of Teragrid 09 Conference

   * Keynote talks and other noteworthy events

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Paul, Ruth, John McGee, Jim Basney, Preston from Purdue were there. There were also students from Nebraska, Maryland and Clemson in attendance. A good showing of people involved with OSG and/or TG were present.

Paul noted that there was any number of science tracks being discussed that are benefiting from TG. Paul also attended (as did Ruth) their Science Advisory Board Meeting and also to a "transition to XD" session where users expressed their concerns.

Paul gave his keynote talk on Tuesday, Ed Seidel gave his keynote on Wednesday, another person gave a life sciences talk on Thursday. Paul talked for the most part on collaborative work with Teragrid as one broad way of engaging and fulfilling national cyberinfrastructure and our vision of it; Ruth and Miron helped Paul with preparing the talk. Paul thought the talk was received extremely well and got lots of positive feedback, though no one stepped up to participate at this point. Ruth and Paul also met with John Townes and Scott Lathrup for about 45 minutes. Overall it was a useful experience for understanding what is going on in TG. There is obviously a lot of concern over the XD proposal - two factions forming to present proposals for XD. The user community is concerned about sustaining support for existing resources. Expect John Townes to come for an hour to the OSG Council Face-to-Face meeting. John has asked to be available from 4PM to 5PM on the Monday. John will also be attending part of the Staff Retreat Meeting at the end of July.

Paul reported that the TG Science Advisory Board has only been around for about a year. Paul was struck by the fact that the Science Advisory Board was not that independent of TG. Most, if not all, of the SAB were users of Teragrid and have an interest is TG succeeding. Users forum was interesting as users spoke very frankly and expressed concern over the partitioning of resources in a not so unified approach. Lots of discussion of support, especially at the high level. Noted that there were separate talks about how to use two separate resources that are supposedly integrated.

Had a meeting on software with Alain Roy (over the phone) with Matts representing OSG Engagement, Ruth, Lee Liming, JP, Chris Smith in charge of storage and data, Warren Smith in charge of scheduling. Talked about ideas for having a client base that can be used and configured to work with either OSG or TG. Since the client distribution is under Alain's wing at Madison. Generated some action items and Ruth will summarize this for her next report.

Shaowen reported that he was there for one day and noticed that TG had a lot of students (over a hundred). OSG participated in the student attendance but only generated a few students with the time available. Shaowen reported that "GI Solve" is running on both OSG and TG resources, though his student's talk focused on running on the TG at this conference.

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Annual report to NSF has been submitted

%BLUE% *minutes:*

The OSG Annual Report to the NSF has been submitted and accepted by Marv Goldberg. This frees up the funds for next year. Many thinks to everyone that worked with Paul and Chander to put this together this year. The Annual Report can be found in the OSG DocDB [[http://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org/cgi-bin/ShowDocument?docid=860][here]] as a public accessible document.

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Planning for OSG's Future

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Ruth noted that there are several threads going on at this time in terms of the future of OSG; FY 10 and 11, how we will collaborate with TG, how ASCR and HEP are looking at the future of facilities, how our SciDAC futures, etc. And it would be best to have a round-table on this at the Face-to-Face that goes in depth as to what the options are and were the consortium wants to go. Ruth encouraged the council members to insure that there VO inputs to FY10 or beyond, express all the needs that they would like OSG to address. US Atlas has provided Ruth with a very nice detailed list which she is still processing. Jerome has provided inputs from STAR. Ruth will come up with some high level bullets to discuss at the Face-to-Face Council Meeting in August. 

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Round-Table Virtual Organization Reports and Issues - Ongoing Goals/Milestones

%BLUE% *minutes:*

*Tom/Purdue:* Things are going pretty well.

*Chander/Project Manager:* Nothing at present.

*Dick/DOSAR:* DOSAR VO is currently discussing DOSAR's part in  OSG's future and hope to be ready to discuss this at the Face-to-Face.

*Shaowen/Collective VO:* New international collaboration with Chinese Academy of Sciences has now registered a site with the OSG. Running food supply models on this new resource. The current resource under testing is 6 or 7 compute nodes. Plan to increase to 30+ nodes. The center has a large number of resources. The largest is over 100 TFLOPS. The current focus is on storage resources for moving large quantites of data (several terabytes). Kent asked Shaowen about status of second Collective VO representative candidate. Shaowen attended two of the VO Forum weekly meetings and he advertised this to the forum. He hasn't received any feedback and he is now planning to do a more targeted communication with VOs. Paul and Kent are willing to speak to any questions any interested individuals might have.

*Michael/US ATLAS:* ATLAS is in the process of running extensively a couple of very relevant exercises to prove the readiness for full scale data taking. One of these is STEP09. It was started in early June and completed about 2 weeks later. It is running  parallel tests of all principle ATLAS computing activities at nominal data taking rate. Also noteworthy that it is accessing the readiness of the entire WLCG resources for all four LHC experiments. Workflows set up using ATLAS and CMS computing models with data distribution across all facility levels. Came up with a Robotic system to assure sufficient load on systems. Input data sets are being read from tape as will be the case when LHC data taking begins. There were firm metrics with firm numbers to access the readiness. The computing facilities in the US did very well, thanks in part to OSG! One of the highlights is that in comparison with others, the US completed the largest fraction of analysis jobs, about 430,000 jobs successfully completed in US cloud. Majority of worldwide users submitted to the US. The efficiency observed was 94%. This was the best within ATLAS. Not good enough and will need to do more. So they have produced within the US cloud a very big data sample with 100,000,000 events. Real physicists are now lined up to care out real world analysis. Stressed the storage and noted that this can cause component failure and really need to concentrate on stability and performance of storage facilities. October is still the target date for real data taking for LHC. Will need to address scalability issues with Condor-G seen with their pilot based workload management system and will be further discussion with Condor team and OSG.

*Richard/SLAC/ATLAS:* SLAC has an ATLAS Tier 2. SLAC had more failures than expected in the STEP09. They have a detailed post mortem of all the classes of things that went wrong. There is a certain class of failures that the already know the solution to and are in the process of implementing. It seems that they will have the possibility to overrun the capabilities of the storage with analysis jobs. Other sort of ATLAS data management issues. But there really were not any issues that can be blamed on OSG. The exercise was very successful in its ability to expose issues.

*Brad/DZero:* MC production continues to work well.  No record week this month but an average month. DZero is in contact with Igor about D0's Scalability, Reliability and Usability issues/needs/desires.

*Scott McCauley/Indiana:* No issues. Noted that he chaired first Teragrid meeting.

*Paul/Co-Chair:* Nothing else.

*Ruth/Exec Dir:* Nothing else.

*Kent/Co-Chair*: LIGO started its S6 science run last week. Running and sharing data with VIRGO. 

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ AOB

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Nothing this month. See everyone at the Face-to-Face!

%ENDCOLOR%


-- Main.KentBlackburn - 13 Jul 2009