---++!! OSG Council Quarterly Teleconference 

%TOC%

---+++ Logistics
   * June 13th 
   * 11 AM Pacific Time, 12 PM Mountain, 1 PM Central, 2 PM Eastern 
   * Dial in instructions may be found [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/WebHome#Logistics][here]].

---+++ Call to order:
   * Attending: Ruth Pordes, Lothar Bauerdick, Paul Avery, Bob Clare, Mats Rynge, Frank Wuerthwein, Mike Norman, Jarek Nabrzyski, Rob Gardner, Piotr Sliz, David Swanson, Steve Tuecke, Jerome Lauret, Brad Abbott, Greg Bell, Tom Hacker, Vicky White, Miron Livny
   * Regrets-notification given: Horst Severini, Michael Ernst, Chander Sehgal, Ken Bloom, Von Welch, Bill Barnett, Jim Shank, Amber Boehnlein, 
  

This will be the first in the new structure of quarterly meetings. We will have 3 1 hour sessions with 10 minute breaks between each one. 

The doodle poll for the meeting date and time is [[http://doodle.com/q5skrxui25hcwqgn2p33zkgc/admin?#table][here]].

---+++ *Reading/Acceptance of Minutes of Last Meeting*
[[https://www.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Council/March-14-2013][March face-to-face]]

---+++ Resulting (new/updated) Action Items:  
   *  UCSD's application was accepted 
   * AHM: Jerome/STAR prefers April to avoid accelerator turn on time; Miron/Condor advises avoid end of April because of Condor week.
   * Agreement that XSEDE-OSG usage should refer to XD not XSEDE
   * Request to Executive Director to identify contact lead for coordinating work to enable jobs that use the Galaxy portal to run effectively on OSG. GLOW, CSIU and ND have users and the former two have done some technical work. 
   * ESNET round table items to be revisited at the next Council meeting.


---+++ Officers Reports:
   * Council Chair -  Ruth Pordes
      * [[%ATTACHURL%/UCSDforOSGv5.pdf][Application by SDSC/UCSD to join the Council]] - Mike Norman, Frank Wuerthwein
      * UpdatedStatus of [[https://www.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Council/CouncilActionItems][Action Items]]  - Ruth Pordes
      * 2014 AHM - Amber Boehlnlein
         * The planning will start in earnest this summer, starting with the quest for a date.  Due to various constraints, we'll be looking at April as well as March.
      * Fall face to face Council meeting 
         * Week of September 30th at the University of Chicago?
         * Add extra 1/2 or full-day to address outcome of the sub-committee on "OSG Industry Relationships" for a meeting with SBIR/STTR/potential commercial partner engagement.

   * Executive Director - [[%ATTACHURL%/2013-06-OSG_Council_Mtg.pdf][Executive Director's Report to the Council]];  [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/twiki/pub/Management/2013WorkPlanRetreat/2013-06-OSG-staff_retreat.pdf][Report at the OSG Staff Retreat June 4th]] - Lothar Bauerdick
   * Technical Director - Report - Miron Livny
      * XD SP Forum -- still discussing storage resources and their allocations
      * No discussion in SP Forum or Advisory Group of XD initiative from xsede.org "XSEDE industry challenge program; establishing a new model for collaborative research between industry and academia." 
      * Concern we are not writing up /capturing our conceptual progress and advances in principles in the Blueprint. Will be a focus of Year 2 program of work. 
 


---+++  Special orders --- Important business previously designated for consideration at this meeting.
   * OSG as an XSEDE SP - Report  -  Mats Rynge (for Chander Sehgal)    
      * [[%ATTACHURL%/OSG_as_XSEDE_SP_Report_on_11june2013_v3.pdf][OSG_as_XSEDE_SP_Report_on_11june2013_v3.pdf]]: OSG as XSEDE SP Report in PDF format
   * OSG CA Status - Report - Von Welch
      * [[http://osg-docdb.opensciencegrid.org/cgi-bin/ShowDocument?docid=1156][Final report of Transition published]]
      * Wrap up meeting with DOE and ESNet on June 12th
   * Feedback from the annual report and other agency contacts.


---+++ Council Member Roundtable Topics

   * Jarek/ND
      * interested in  support for Galaxy based applications - does this exist or is it planned or..?
      * interested in forum to  exchange information on use of VM environments.

   * Greg/ESNET 
      * Partnership / outreach activities and strategy
      * Focused OSG/ESNET outreach meeting planning

   * Vicky/Rob Roser/Fermilab - focus on a couple of items from March vision statements
      * need for ease of use of storage and what does the project and/or other council members think?
      * Strategic direction for IF experiments and OSG including [[http://computing.fnal.gov/datamanagement][response to recent DOE call for lab facility data management policies/description]]

   * Tom/NEES 
      * [[%ATTACHURL%/BTF_Update_20130612.pptx][Status of Collaborative Bridge to the Future project]]  - making progress

   * US LHC encouragement to engage with DOE HPC facilities and plans for running their - ?Michael, Ken, Rob?

   * Miron/Condor/GLOW  - continuing to steadily use the OSG. Trying to "fill the capacity". Still not able to understand whether the boundary is demand side or capacity side. Technologies should be allowing this. Stimulus for usability work in Year 2.

   * Jerome/STAR - interested in satellite developments towards Cloud based application support
      
   * Steve/Globus - feedin/feedback from Globus/OSG phone meeting series

   * Piotr/SBGrid - continuing to run steadily. Submitting paper describing SBGrid Consortium and OSG collaboration - will give pointers on final acceptance. 

   * Paul/UFL 
      * Schedule/planning for 100G to campuses
      * Status of Florida regional infrastructure

   * Horst/DOSAR (written report unable to attend) DosarReport

   * Input from non-Council VOs (added after the event by Ruth)
      * Glue-X - Richard Jones We at Gluex don't have any particular requests, except to say that plans are in place to increase our capacity (new Gluex sites) and move forward with new data challenge exercises, following up on the success of the first one last December. Our time frame for the next data challenge is August-September.  I can forward more specifics to you as we refine the scope and goals.
 Jlab  had indicated some willingness to support SRM access to the tape library, but are now using Globus Online.  Do you know if any work has been done to integrate globus online with the OSG stack?
      * Alice-USA - Jeff Porter. Nothing of note at this time.





---+++ Committee reports.
 
---+++   New business.
   * Strategies for Campus Engagement
      * [[http://www.campusgrids.org][Campus Grids CIC]] series feedback/discussion - Rob Gardner 
      * Upcoming workshop at Duke University, Aug 27-28 ([[https://indico.fnal.gov/conferenceDisplay.py?confId=6863][agenda]]) - hands on, tutorial-driven.  Goal is to add 5 new campuses, 50 individual researchers, demonstrated success with job submission to local campus resources and the OSG utilizing a new service OSG Connect.
      * Discussion of how  the Council members can practically contribute to the strategic thrust to engage researchers on existing campus infrastructures and foster/help engage new ones.
 
   * Strategies for Satellites
      * Situation today - Satellites in flight - Ruth
      * Discussion of how the Council members can practically contribute to extend the OSG eco-system through satellites

--

---+++ Adjournment.



-- Main.RuthPordes - 06 Apr 2013


-- Main.KimberlyMyles - 01 May 2013
-- Main.MatsRynge - 10 Jun 2013

   
