---++!! OSG Council Monthly Teleconference

   * Teleconference Phone Number: 1-510-665-5437 
   * Meeting ID: 1111 
   * Date: Tuesday June 8th, 2010
   * Time: 10:00 AM Pacific Time, 11AM Mountain, Noon Central, 1PM Eastern 
   * Attending: Paul Avery, Kent Blackburn, Dan Fraser, Chander Sehgal, Ruth Pordes, Horst Severini, Lothar Bauerdick, Doug Olson, Rick Snider, David Swanson, Brad Abbot, Piotr Sliz, Abhishek Rana, Barr Von Oehsen, Nick Hadley, John McGee 
   * Regrets: Michael Ernst, Tom Hacker, Torre Wenaus, Sebastien Goasguen

%BLUE% 
Barr Von Oehsen from Clemson University introduced himself as the alternate for Sebastien Goasguen. Barr described his roles and how they overlapped with the Campus Activities Sebastien has been involved with.
%ENDCOLOR%


---++ *Agenda/Minutes*

---+++ Announcements

   * Date for OSG Council Face to Face Meeting set: August 18th, 2010
      * OSG Council Dinner Evening of August 17th, 2010
      * Venue: Fermilab
   * Venue Needed for Next Year's OSG All-Hands Meeting

---+++ Status Report from the OSG Executive Director, OSG Project Manager and/or Others

   * OSG Executive Director's Report 
      
   * OSG Production Report: _Dan Fraser_ 
      * [[%ATTACHURL%/JobSubmissiontoCouncil.ppt][Job Submission Powerpoint discussion]]
      * [[http://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Documentation/JobSubmissionComparison][New Document Comparing OSG Job Submission Strategies]]
      * [[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Production/ProblemsEncounteredByVOsDuringJobSubmission][New Document documenting VO problems and recommendations]]

   * VOs Group Coordinator: _Abhishek Singh Rana_
      * [[VirtualOrganizations.SummarytoCouncil06082010][Report]]

%BLUE% *minutes:*

Ruth focused on the action items (3 & 7), see below.

Dan went over documents provided in the links above. Dan noted that Pilots solve a lot of problems that have been seen by applications. But this shifts the work into the pilot factory. Dan also noted that OSG-MM is no longer fully supported. Panda specific to ATLAS, but has been used by CHARMM VO. There is an issue with job accounting for pilots that needs to be worked out. It was also noted that OSG-MM has some very nice features (testing/validation) that would be nice to get into pilots.

Dan 

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Status Report from OSG Council Co-Chairs

   * Status of NSF Annual Report _Paul_
   * Status of EXTENSI _Paul_
   * Update on of Future iSTGW _Paul_
   * Council endorsement for adding OSG affiliated science publications into SPIRES _Kent_
      * David Ritchie has requested approval of our forwarding a copy of the OSG Scientific Publication Lists to the SPIRES Mirror at Fermilab ( http://www-spires.fnal.gov/spires/hep/ ) as soon as they are submitted by the various VOs and deemed by us to be ready for cataloging.

%BLUE% *minutes:*

There has been good response from science stakeholders to the request for inputs to the NSF Annual Report. Chander and Paul are making good progress on all fronts for the report.

EXTENSI funds may be held up by submission of the OSG Annual Report to the NSF. Paul not certain about this yet. Hopefully the report will go in soon.

Council may need to think about funding for iSTGW. The contributions from outside of the OSG end in July of this year. Noted that OSG's funding contribution is solid.

Council in favor of using SPIRES for science publications that have benefited from OSG. Kent will send David a not to the effect.

The council was informed that Tom Furlani will be stepping down from his role as one of the two "At-Large VO" Representatives.

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Status Report for Pending Action Items from March Face-to-Face Council Meeting

1. *Paul Avery*; Communicate with Ian regarding Globus Alliance position on Council.

%BLUE% *minutes:*
The council gave strong support for Steve Tichie  stepping in a the Globus Representation. Council requested that Steve be asked about his availability to attend meetings as an area for further considerations. Paul will check with him on this.
%ENDCOLOR%

 2. *Shaowen Wang & Doug Olson*; Develop and document a process for removing a council representative on the basis of participation. This should include an "inactive state", which also has a process for returning to "active status" based on the procedures to be developed and documented. This process should be reviewed by the council before ratification.

OSG BYLAWS STATEMENT:

_It is the intention that OSG Council members actively participate in Council and Consortium activities on a regular basis. Activities include teleconference, video conferences, face to face meetings, email voting, contributing to the work of the council, etc. A regular basis defined as participation in at least 1/2 of the council events a 6 month period._

DRAFT: 

_Every effort shall be made by the OSG Council to contact the organization before it is dropped from the Council, to ensure that this was the intention of the organization._

_A member organization can be suspended (defined as loss of voting privilege) by majority vote after review of their membership status at one of the regular face-to-face meetings, or upon recommendation for such a vote by one of the councilors, on the basis of an extended period of inactivity or non-compliance with membership responsibilities. To resume regular meeting attendance and participation in council activities can lead to the termination of suspension that shall be decided by the Council Chair or Co-Chairs._

_A member that remains in suspended status for more than 6 months shall be considered to have resigned from the OSG Council if steps are not taken to refresh its membership. Direct expulsion can also be considered in the case of severe violation of membership conditions. A resigned or expelled member may return to active status by following the same process as that for new membership._


%BLUE% *minutes:*
Doug reported on the draft document captured above. Kent asked if this was aligned with the by-laws, or if evolution would be needed there. Doug and Shaowen will review with the by-laws in mind and report back.
%ENDCOLOR%

3. *Ruth Pordes, John McGee & Piotr Sliz*; Develop a document covering "expectations" for coming into the OSG. Collective VO representatives reported that there were lots of questions regarding how to interact with the funding agencies as a member of the OSG. One example VO was noted as SBGrid in the discussion.

A preliminary draft is at

[[https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Council/MemberExpectations]]

Initial comments from the Council Co-Chair: 
o There seems to be a lot of new content that is outside of what is
currently socialized. If there are any particular sub-elements of this
the subcommittee considers as being uniquely un-socialized to the
council it would be good to have them enumerated at the time this is
reviewed by the council. (The 10% or more opportunistic availability in
my last email on this subject comes to mind).

o In the figure at the bottom of the document that outlines out new
user/student members enter into the "Help" process, it is a bit unclear
how the flow would go for existing users that need help and how that
feeds back on the VO and these other OSG support entities.



%BLUE% *minutes:*
Ruth noted the documenting of a 10% opportunistic contributions from resource providers. Dan reported that OSG is currently seeing around the 10% number for "average" opportunistic contributions. Chander noted that past annual reports have reported 20% opportunistic usage. Piotr felt that it was more important to state that resource providers are open to others more than to provide a number. Piotr's comments were felt to be the more constructive way to express this and Ruth agreed to change document to reflect Piotr's comments.
%ENDCOLOR%

 4. *Chander Sehgal*; Find out the end data for SciDAC II

%BLUE% *minutes:*
DONE
%ENDCOLOR%

 5. *Ruth Pordes, John McGee, Vicky White, Michael Ernst, Doug Olson*; Wordsmith the "Mission Statement" presented to the Council.

%BLUE% *minutes:*

%ENDCOLOR%

6. *Ruth Pordes, Paul Avery, Miron Livny, Michael Ernst, Kent Blackburn*; Work to revise the Management Plan.

%BLUE% *minutes:*
This waterfalls out of Action Items 3 & 5. This will be address once those have been passed by the council.
%ENDCOLOR%

 7. *Ruth Pordes, John McGee, Dan Fraser, Frank Wuerthwein*; Develop strategy for approach XD teams regarding engage, user support & advanced user support by the OSG.

%BLUE% *minutes:*
DONE: Ruth reported that she had been in communications with the Council Co-Chairs regarding this and that Frank Wurthwein was under NDA with both teams.
%ENDCOLOR%

 8. *Kent Blackburn*; Set up a doodle poll to determine the best date for the August Face-to-Face. The Council meeting will be one day. It will be preceded by a one day meeting of proposal planning lead by Ruth. The Council will have a dinner the night before the Council meeting. 

   * Venue: Fermilab or Hotel near Chicago?
   * [[http://www.doodle.com/zykgavkaz4dtx7vn][Doodle Poll for Determining the Face-to-Face Council Meeting Date]]

%BLUE% *minutes:*
DONE
%ENDCOLOR%

%ENDCOLOR%

---+++ Round-Table Virtual Organization Reports and Issues:

%BLUE% *minutes:*
Due to the length of the meeting, Kent asked if there were any particular items anyone wished to call out. None were reported.
%ENDCOLOR%


-- Main.KentBlackburn - 04 Jun 2010
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/JobSubmissiontoCouncil.ppt][JobSubmissiontoCouncil.ppt]]: Slides describing the Job submission effort
